# ai-case-study

# AI company research

## Overview and Origin

* Name of company
The company is called Stability AI.

* When was the company incorporated?
The company was incorporated in 2021.

* Who are the founders of the company?
The founder is Emad Mostaque, who was the British-Bangladeshi business 
executive and mathematician. 

* How did the idea for the company (or project) come about?
Stability was initially established to be the DAO of DAO, to attract talent, and to leverage the superpower. But then the founder realised there was no intelligence in Web3, so he had to build the intelligence from the ground up.

His experience in AI and human rights organisations also inspired him to leverage this fast-growing technique to reshape education, the healthcare industry, and others. He initially led one of the United Nations-backed AI initiatives against COVID-19 and was the lead architect for global co-knowledge, making it accessible through AI. But then, every company that promised to back it didn't consider the company's danger. 

* How is the company funded? How much funding have they received?
The company was raised through angels and institutional investors. The recent disclosure of the round, which was $101 million, was led by Coatue, Lightspeed Venture Partners, and O’Shaughnessy Ventures. LLC, not to mention the smaller follow-up round that Intel participated in.

## Business Activities

* What specific problem is the company or project trying to solve?
The company was the first community-driven open-source artificial intelligence company. It’s the parent company of Stable Diffusion, the deep learning, text-to-image model released in 2022. When it came about in August 2022, the Cumulative Developer Star in Github overtook Bitcoin and Ethereum in 3 months. Also, the cumulative downloads on the models exceeded 300 million. By open source, the key technique, every developer globally can customise their own model. Think about Dalle-e by Open AI; when they realised this, they banned it for all Unkarinan content and Unkarnians because of censorship. So we must create the option for AI by the people, for the people.

* Who is the company's intended customer? Is there any information about the market size of this set of customers?
The target strategy is similar to Open AI, as they build different models. According to the latest disclosure of the CEO, last month's revenue was around 5 million, the majority of which comes from API clients. Also, according to the latest financial data published by Open AI, their annual revenue is $3400 million, of which subscription revenue only accounts for ⅕, while most revenue comes from the API services, which is mostly likely from Business Clients.

* What solution does this company offer that its competitors cannot offer? (What is the unfair advantage they utilise?)
As I said, they have one of AI's largest developer and talent communities. The models they have or are working on have attracted over 300 million downloads. Also, unlike its competitors, such as Midjourney and others, which focus exclusively on image generation, it has generated different kinds of the best world-class models of every type, including protein folding models, video models, and Tripsor 3D models, from which you could generate objects within 0.5 seconds, faster than Pika and Runway. Stable LM model, you could go to LM studio to download and run it on a Macbook Air. They managed to prove they could compete others.

* Which technologies are they currently using, and how are they implementing them? (This may take a bit of sleuthing&mdash; you may want to search the company’s engineering blog or use sites like Stackshare to find this information.)
The most popular product is stable diffusion, with a series of flagship products. For the models, they opt out of the billion images on the Internet. SDXL, one of their cutting-edge models, leverages the three times larger UNet backbone compared to the previous version of Stable Diffusion. We design multiple novel conditioning schemes and train SDXL on multiple aspect ratios. We also introduce a refinement model used to improve the visual fidelity of samples generated by SDXL using a post-hoc image-to-image technique. 

## Landscape

* What field is the company in?
It’s an open-source generative AI company.

* What have been this field's major trends and innovations over the last 5&ndash; to 10 years?
We have never seen any technology spread as such. It has been used by every industry, including designers, coders, professionals, education professionals, and healthcare professionals. Suddenly, Google became the AI-first company, Microsoft became the AI-first company, and Nvidia became the 2 trillion company. We have never seen anything technology like this before.

* What are the other major companies in this field?
We have seen more and more tech giants working for open-source businesses such as Facebook and LlaMA. Google, Amazon, Meta, Microsoft, and Apple currently sit on over US$400b in cash-like assets (now clipping >5%). Furthermore, their core businesses are throwing off the equivalent of >1.5% of GDP each year's operating income. The race for AI supremacy is just getting started.

## Results

* What has been the business impact of this company so far?
They have recruited over 80 researchers and engineers, none leaving for big competitors even though they got 10 times the payroll. Some of them went on to build their own start-up. On Discord, they have 400,000 talents in image, music, health care, and other areas. Also, they gave the initial grant and(or) free computing power to some leading companies and communities, such as Midjourney, MEDARC, Harmoni, Laion and others. 


* What are some of the core metrics that companies in this field use to measure success? How is your company performing based on these metrics?
Some metrics include talent, impact, and business revenue. It has been recognised as one of the nine AI start-ups with the most talent in generative AI. Regarding impact, they have helped many developing country's developers and companies leverage the new technique to build their own models, such as China. China has a very big, active community.Also, for business, lots of communities and companies that have been established by leveraging the stable diffusion technique and ecosystem, such as Leonardo AI, a leading image generator. Bilibili China version of YouTube, which has 300 million users. They launched a generated AI platform, LiblibAI, using the SDXL model.

* How is your company performing relative to competitors in the same field?
They are both outstanding in talent, impact and research. The business side still has growing revenue, as they have large Capex in talents and computer training.

## Recommendations

* If you were to advise the company, what products or services would you suggest they offer? (This could be something that a competitor offers, or use your imagination!)

We should leverage the technique of web3. Web3 and blockchain have been isolated systems for years, and many innovative economics designers have been made. The landscape has been filled with narrative-driven companies, such as decentralised inference, decentralised GPU, etc. The company with the capital and talent to build state-of-the-art models is still missing. So we expect to see more AI talents to build staff in Web3.0.

* Why would offering this product or service benefit the company?
The emergence of AI+Web3.0 has been a hot topic for recent years.By leveraging the technique, we could probably find the solution for governance. If you look at Sam Altman’s talk, the most words he mentions is governance because he is thinking the long-term future where super-intelligent matters, and then governance becomes the big thing. The technique is going to teach your kids and diagnose our health, but who governs that? Also, it should bring value to value transfer rails, data verification, self-sovereign AI and identity.

* What technologies would this additional product or service utilise?
As mentioned, it should be value transfer rails. Imagine there will be a billion or more agents around; they can’t have a bank account, can they? We could leverage the technique to make smaller but more frequent payments. Also, considering the deep fake issue with AI, we need transparent, on-chain verification for data, which is why blockchain is the best fit.

* Why are these technologies appropriate for your solution?
Blockchain will be the scare resource for AI because who will control your private key?  You don’t want it to be monopolised by the AI giants, right? So, we need AI money assets. The AI winner will be the 3-5 trillion dollar company, 10,000+ smaller business enterprises, and probably one AI money company that leverages the blockchain technique.

Source:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.01952

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1rVihrDo3rM

https://members.delphidigital.io/reports/the-tower-the-square#your-size-is-not-size-0b17

https://dailyhodl.com/2024/06/18/balaji-srinivasan-says-crypto-will-become-money-in-the-age-of-artificial-intelligence-heres-why/


